Job practice areas tested for and validated by a CISA certification
18% DOMAIN 1 – INFORMATION SYSTEMS AUDITING PROCESS
Providing industry-standard audit services to assist organizations in protecting and controlling information systems, Domain-1 affirms your credibility to offer conclusions on the state of an organization’s IS/IT security, risk and control solutions.
A–PLANNING
IS Audit Standards, Guidelines, and Codes of Ethics
Types of Audits, Assessments, and Reviews
Risk-Based Audit Planning
Types of Controls and Considerations
B–EXECUTION
Audit Project Management
Audit Testing and Sampling Methodology
Audit Evidence Collection Techniques
Audit Data Analytics
Reporting and Communication Techniques
Quality Assurance and Improvement of Audit Process
18% DOMAIN 2 – GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT OF IT
This domain confirms to stakeholders your abilities to identify critical issues and recommend enterprise-specific practices to support and safeguard the governance of information and related technologies.
A–IT GOVERNANCE
Laws, Regulations, and Industry Standards
Organizational Structure, IT Governance, and IT Strategy
IT Policies, Standards, Procedures and Practices
Enterprise Architecture and Considerations
Enterprise Risk Management
Privacy Program and Principles
Data Governance and Classification
B–IT MANAGEMENT
IT Resource Management
IT Vendor Management
IT Performance Monitoring and Reporting
Quality Assurance and Quality Management of IT
12% DOMAIN 3 – INFORMATION SYSTEMS ACQUISITION, DEVELOPMENT & IMPLEMENTATION
Domains 3 and 4 offer proof not only of your competency in IT controls, but also your understanding of how IT relates to business.
A–INFORMATION SYSTEMS ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT
Project Governance and Management
Business Case and Feasibility Analysis
System Development Methodologies
Control Identification and Design
B–INFORMATION SYSTEMS IMPLEMENTATION
System Readiness and Implementation Testing
Implementation Configuration and Release Management
System Migration, Infrastructure Deployment, and Data Conversion
Post-implementation Review
26% DOMAIN 4 – INFORMATION SYSTEMS OPERATIONS & BUSINESS RESILIENCE
Domains 3 and 4 offer proof not only of your competency in IT controls, but also your understanding of how IT relates to business.
A–INFORMATION SYSTEMS OPERATIONS
IT Components
IT Asset Management
Job Scheduling and Production Process Automation
System Interfaces
Shadow IT and End-User Computing
Systems Availability and Capacity Management
Problem and Incident Management
IT Change, Configuration, and Patch Management
Operational Log Management
IT Service Level Management
Database Management
B–BUSINESS RESILIENCE
Business Impact Analysis
System and Operational Resilience
Data Backup, Storage, and Restoration
Business Continuity Plan
Disaster Recovery Plans
26% DOMAIN 5 – PROTECTION OF INFORMATION ASSETS
Cybersecurity now touches virtually every information systems role, and understanding its principles, best practices and pitfalls is a major focus within Domain 5.
A–INFORMATION ASSET SECURITY AND CONTROL
Information Asset Security Frameworks, Standards, and Guidelines
Physical and Environmental Controls
Identity and Access Management
Network and End-Point Security
Data Loss Prevention
Data Encryption
Public Key Infrastructure
Cloud and Virtualized Environments
Mobile, Wireless, and Internet-of-Things Devices
B–SECURITY EVENT MANAGEMENT
Security Awareness Training and Programs
Information System Attack Methods and Techniques
Security Testing Tools and Techniques
Security Monitoring Tools and Techniques
Security Incident Response Management
Evidence Collection and Forensics
Secondary Classifications – Tasks
Plan an audit to determine whether information systems are protected, controlled, and provide value to the organization.
Conduct audits in accordance with IS audit standards and a risk based IS audit strategy.
Apply project management methodologies to the audit process.
Communicate and collect feedback on audit progress, findings, results, and recommendations with stakeholders.
Conduct post-audit follow up to evaluate whether identified risk has been sufficiently addressed.
Utilize data analytics tools to enhance audit processes.
Evaluate the role and/or impact of automatization and/or decision-making systems for an organization.
Evaluate audit processes as part of quality assurance and improvement programs.
Evaluate the IT strategy for alignment with the organization's strategies and objectives.
Evaluate the effectiveness of IT governance structure and IT organizational structure.
Evaluate the organization's management of IT policies and practices, including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Evaluate IT resource and project management for alignment with the organization's strategies and objectives.
Evaluate the organization's enterprise risk management (ERM) program.
Determine whether the organization has defined ownership of IT risk, controls, and standards.
Evaluate the monitoring and reporting of IT key performance indicators (KPIs) and IT key risk indicators (KRIs).
Evaluate the organization's ability to continue business operations.
Evaluate the organization's storage, backup, and restoration policies and processes.
Evaluate whether the business cases related to information systems meet business objectives.
Evaluate whether IT vendor selection and contract management processes meet business, legal, and regulatory requirements.
Evaluate supply chains for IT risk factors and integrity issues.
Evaluate controls at all stages of the information systems development life cycle.
Evaluate the readiness of information systems for implementation and migration into production.
Conduct post-implementation reviews of systems to determine whether project deliverables, controls, and requirements are met.
Evaluate whether effective processes are in place to support end users.
Evaluate whether IT service management practices align with organizational requirements.
Conduct periodic review of information systems and enterprise architecture (EA) to determine alignment with organizational objectives.
Evaluate whether IT operations and maintenance practices support the organization's objectives.
Evaluate the organization's database management practices.
Evaluate the organization's data governance program.
Evaluate the organization's privacy program.
Evaluate data classification practices for alignment with the organization's data governance program, privacy program, and applicable external requirements.
Evaluate the organization's problem and incident management program.
Evaluate the organization's change, configuration, release, and patch management programs.
Evaluate the organization's log management program.
Evaluate the organization's policies and practices related to asset life cycle management.
Evaluate risk associated with shadow IT and end-user computing (EUC) to determine effectiveness of compensating controls.
Evaluate the organization's information security program.
Evaluate the organization's threat and vulnerability management program.
Utilize technical security testing to identify potential vulnerabilities.
Evaluate logical, physical, and environmental controls to verify the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information assets.
Evaluate the organization's security awareness training program.
Provide guidance to the organization in order to improve the quality and control of information systems.
Evaluate potential opportunities and risks associated with emerging technologies, regulations, and industry practices.
