Job practice areas tested for and validated by a CRISC certification
26% DOMAIN 1 – GOVERNANCE
The governance domain interrogates your knowledge of information about an organization’s business and IT environments, organizational strategy, goals and objectives, and examines potential or realized impacts of IT risk to the organization’s business objectives and operations, including Enterprise Risk Management and Risk Management Framework.
A—ORGANIZATIONAL GOVERNANCE
Strategy, Goals, and Objectives
Organizational Structure, Roles, and Responsibilities
Organizational Culture and Ethics
Policies and Standards
Business Processes and Resilience (e.g., DRP, BCP)
Organizational Asset Management
B—RISK GOVERNANCE
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
Lines of Defense
Risk Profile
Risk Appetite and Risk Tolerance
Risk Frameworks, Legal, Regulatory, and Contractual Requirements
22% DOMAIN 2 – RISK ASSESSMENT
This domain will certify your knowledge of threats and vulnerabilities to the organization’s people, processes and technology as well as the likelihood and impact of threats, vulnerabilities and risk scenarios.
A—RISK IDENTIFICATION
Risk Events
Threat Modeling and Threat Landscape
Vulnerability Management
Risk Scenario Development and Evaluation
B—RISK ANALYSIS
Risk Assessment Concepts and Standards
Business Impact Analysis (BIA)
Risk Register
Risk Analysis Methodologies
Inherent and Residual Risk
32% DOMAIN 3 – RISK RESPONSE AND REPORTING
This domain deals with the development and management of risk treatment plans among key stakeholders, the evaluation of existing controls and improving effectiveness for IT risk mitigation, and the assessment of relevant risk and control information to applicable stakeholders.
A—RISK RESPONSE
Risk Response Options
Risk and Control Ownership
Vendor/Supply Chain Risk Management
Issues, Findings, Exceptions and Exemptions Management
B—CONTROL DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
Control Frameworks, Types, and Standards
Control Design, Selection, Implementation, and Analysis
Control Testing Methodologies
C—RISK MONITORING AND REPORTING
Risk Action Plans
Data Collection, Aggregation, Analysis, and Validation
Risk and Control Metrics (e.g., KRIs, KCIs, KPIs)
Risk and Control Monitoring Techniques
Risk and Control Reporting Techniques (e.g., heatmap, scorecards, dashboards)
Monitoring and Reporting of Emerging Risks
20% DOMAIN 4 – TECHNOLOGY AND SECURITY
In this domain we interrogate the alignment of business practices with Risk Management and Information Security frameworks and standards, as well as the development of a risk-aware culture and implementation of security awareness training.
A—Technology and Security
Technology Principles
Technology Roadmaps and Enterprise Architecture (EA)
Operations Management (e.g., change management, assets, DevOps, problems, incidents)
System Development Life Cycle (SDLC)
Data Lifecycle Management
Portfolio and Project Management (e.g. Agile)
Technology Resilience and Disaster Response/Recovery
Emerging Technologies
B—INFORMATION SECURITY PRINCIPLES
Security Concepts, Frameworks, and Standards
Security/Risk Awareness and Training
Data Privacy and Data Protection Principles
SUPPORTING TASKS
Collect, review, and evaluate existing information regarding the organization’s business and information system environments.
Identify potential or realized impacts of information system risk to the organization’s business objectives and operations.
Identify threats and vulnerabilities to the organization’s people, processes, and technologies.
Evaluate threats, vulnerabilities, and risk to create information system risk scenarios.
Establish accountability by assigning and validating appropriate levels of risk and control ownership.
Maintain or establish the information system risk register and incorporate it into the enterprisewide risk profile.
Assist key stakeholders in the selection of risk appetite and tolerance thresholds and the impact on business objectives.
Promote a risk-aware culture by contributing to the development and implementation of security/risk awareness and training.
Conduct a risk assessment by analyzing information system risk scenarios and events to generate a risk score/rating.
Identify the current state of existing controls and evaluate their effectiveness for information system risk treatment.
Determine if risk exceeds appetite and tolerance thresholds to recommend treatment options and rectify concerns.
Review the results of risk and/or control analysis to assess any gaps between current and desired states of the risk environment.
Collaborate with risk owners on the development of risk treatment plans.
Collaborate with control owners on the selection, design, implementation, and maintenance of controls.
Validate that risk responses have been executed according to risk action plans.
Define, implement, and refine key risk indicators (KRIs).
Collaborate with control owners on the identification and refinement of key performance indicators (KPIs) and key control indicators (KCIs).
Monitor and analyze key risk indicators (KRIs), key performance indicators (KPIs), and key control indicators (KCIs).
Review the results of control assessments to determine the adequacy, effectiveness, and maturity of the control environment.
Conduct aggregation, analysis, and validation of risk and control data.
Report relevant risk and control information to applicable stakeholders to facilitate risk-based decision-making.
Evaluate emerging technologies and changes to the environment for threats, vulnerabilities, and opportunities.
Evaluate alignment of business practices with risk management frameworks, standards, and regulations.
Facilitate tabletop exercises to verify and identify gaps in risk scenarios, capabilities, and responses.
