This exam is based on Red Hat Build of Quarkus v3.8.
Study points for the exam
To help you prepare, these exam objectives highlight the task areas you can expect to see covered in the exam. Red Hat reserves the right to add, modify, and remove exam objectives. Such changes will be made public in advance.
You should be able to perform these tasks:
Provide and obtain configuration properties through several environment-aware sources made available through dependency injection or lookup
Externalize data into configured values.
Inject configured values into beans using the @Inject and the @ConfigProperty qualifier.
Demonstrate ability to create and access a configuration mapping to a Java Object.
Understand the default ConfigSource ordering and how to extend the configuration support with custom ConfigSource.
Understand how to set custom configuration properties per target environment with Profiles.
Build fault-tolerant Quarkus-based microservices using Microprofile Fault Tolerance strategies
Understand the relationship to MicroProfile Config.
Understand async versus sync execution type.
Understand resilience using Timeouts.
Understand Retry policies and apply using @Retry annotation.
Understand and define Fallback strategy.
Understand and apply CircuitBreaker.
Understand and apply Bulkhead.
Understand and set up fault tolerance configuration.
Probe the state of a Quarkus application from another machine using MicroProfile Health Check
Understand and implement the HealthCheck interface.
Understand and apply @Startup, @Liveness and @Readiness annotation.
Understand and implement Reactive health checks
Understand and implement HealthCheckResponse.
Construct human-friendly HealthCheckResponse.
Understand and use the Health UI.
Understand and apply Health Groups and the @HealthGroup annotation.
Understand and apply the @Wellness annotation.
Observe, collect and measure data from a running Quarkus application using Micrometer Metrics
Understand and use dimensional data aggregation with tags.
Understand and instrument the code with timers, gauges, counters, distribution summaries, and long task timers.
Understand micrometer annotations and the registry API.
Understand and use the exposed metrics via REST API.
Understand Quarkus application metrics programming model.
Understand how to export monitoring data to management agents.
MicroProfile Interoperable JWT RBAC on Quarkus applications: OpenID Connect (OIDC)-based JSON Web Tokens(JWT) for role-based access control (RBAC) of microservice endpoints
Understand token-based authentication.
Use JWT bearer tokens to protect services.
Mark a JAX-RS application as requiring MP-JWT access control.
Map MP-JWT tokens to Java EE container APIs.
Implement a Quarkus application and expose RESTful service endpoints with Resteasy Reactive and Jakarta REST (formerly known as JAX-RS)
Understand RESTful concepts, particularly the application and use of the HTTP PUT, DELETE, GET, and POST methods.
Know and use standard HTTP return codes and return response body.
Understand how to write JSON REST services with Quarkus.
Implement RESTful root resource class.
Expose a RESTful service using Jakarta REST (formerly known as JAX-RS).
Understand and apply declaring endpoints: URI mapping and HTTP representation and content types.
Understand and apply the async/reactive support to declare non-blocking endpoints.
Use CDI to integrate components.
Using bean validation to ensure data format and consistency.
Simplified JPA mapping with Panache
Understand the difference between the Active Record Pattern and the Repository Pattern.
Use basic JPA to create, read, update, and delete persistent objects and their relationships.
Map a bi-directional one-to-many relationship between two entities, including both sides of the association.
Demonstrate the ability to perform the most common Panache operations and add custom entity methods.
Reactive messaging on Quakus applications
Understand reactive programming.
Understand messaging core concept.
Understand Channels.
Understand Incoming and Outgoing.
Understand message acknowledgment .
Microprofile OpenAPI specification to document RESTful APIs
Understand OpenAPI documents and the Swagger UI to discover remote services APIs.
Demonstrate the ability to link to semantic versioning (semver) remote service endpoints.
Understand how to produce the default and custom OpenAPI document to JAX-RS endpoints.
Interacting with REST APIs in Quarkus using the REST Client Reactive
Understand the type-safe approach to invoke RESTful services over HTTP using the Jakarta REST And Microprofile annotations.
Understand REST concepts, particularly the application and use of the HTTP PUT, DELETE, GET, and POST methods.
Understand and use the non-blocking flavor of REST Client Reactive with async support.
Demonstrate the ability to create and use a REST client to connect with a remote service.
Parameterize and configure the REST client URI to invoke a specific remote microservice.
Understand and apply additional custom client headers to the client requests.
Demonstrate the ability to convert HTTP responses to handle exceptions.
Understand and use special additional client headers.
Use OpenTelemetry (OTel) to instrument distributed tracing for interactive web applications
Understand and implement distributed tracing across microservices using OpenTelemetry.
Demonstrate the ability to follow and understand the full path through your distributed application.
Understand the Tracer creates Spans and the Context Propagation assembled into a trace in the correlation identifiers.
Understand how contextual information is passed between Spans using the key-store Baggage.
As with all Red Hat performance-based exams, configurations must persist after restart without intervention.
