Prompt Engineering: 20%
Given business requirements, identify when it's appropriate to use Prompt Builder.
Identify access controls governing prompt templates.
Identify the considerations for using a prompt template type such as field generation and flex types.
Given a scenario, identify the appropriate grounding technique.
Explain the process for creating, activating, and executing prompt templates.
Explain how to implement best practices for writing effective prompts.
Identify the security and privacy features of the Trust Layer.
Explain how to manage and prevent specific models from being accessed.

Data 360 Fundamentals: 20%
Explain the considerations of Agentforce Data Library and its concepts.
Explain foundational concepts of Data 360 such as chunking, indexing, and retrievers.

AI Agents: 35%
Explain how an agent works and its basic building blocks of agent script.
Explain the components and benefits of hybrid reasoning, including how Agent Script functions in Canvas and Script View.
Given a use case, manage deterministic behavior for the agent using mechanisms like filters, variables, and template expressions.
Given a scenario, select and configure standard topics, custom topics, standard Agent actions, and custom Agent actions.
Explain the process for connecting agents to various channels such as digital experience, email, voice, and Slack.
Explain the security context in which the agent is actually running, and how it impacts agent action execution.
Given a scenario, identify when to use an Employee or Service agent.
Given a scenario, identify when it's appropriate to use Agent API.

Testing, Deployment, and Maintenance: 10%
Given a scenario, test an agent using Testing Center.
Explain how Testing Center evaluations work.
Identify the considerations for deploying an agent from sandbox to production.
Identify the considerations for deploying a template from sandbox to production.

Governance and Observability: 10%
Explain the process for managing and monitoring agents.
Explain agent analytics and agent optimization.

Multi-Agent Orchestration: 5%
Given a scenario, determine whether a Multi Agent architecture is appropriate for scalability and control.
Explain the purpose of existing open standard multi-agent protocols such as MCP and A2A.
