Developer Fundamentals: 27%
Understand multi-tenant concepts and design frameworks, such as MVC architecture and Lightning Component Framework.
Given a scenario, identify common use cases and best practices for declarative versus programmatic customizations, including governor limits, formula fields, and roll-up summaries.
Given a scenario, determine, create, and access the appropriate data model including objects, fields, relationships, and external IDs.
Understand use cases and limitations of using Agentforce for Developers.

Process Automation and Logic: 28%
Identify the capabilities of the declarative process automation features.
Understand how to declare variables, constants, methods, modifiers, Apex interfaces, and the appropriate use cases for each.
Given a scenario, assess how Apex control flow statements will execute and when to apply different control flow statements.
Given a scenario, write SOSL, SOQL, and DML statements in Apex, and assess what they will return.
Given a scenario, follow best practices to write Apex classes and triggers.
Given a scenario, understand governor limits and their implications on Apex transactions.
Describe the relationship between Apex transactions, the save order of execution, and the potential for recursion and/or cascading.
Implement exception handling in Apex, including custom exceptions as needed.
Given a scenario, use declarative functionality and Apex together to automate business logic.

User Interface: 25%
Given a scenario, prevent user interface and data access security vulnerabilities.
Given a scenario, display and use custom user interface components, including Lightning components, Flow, and Visualforce.
Describe the use cases and best practices for Lightning Web Components, including the framework, benefits, and events.
Given a scenario, implement Apex to work with various types of page components, including Lightning components, Flow, and Agentforce.

Testing, Debugging, and Deployment: 20%
Write and execute tests for triggers, controllers, classes, and flows using various sources of test data.
Given a scenario, know how and when to use the Salesforce Developer tools such as Salesforce DX, Salesforce CLI, and Developer Console.
Describe how to approach debugging system issues and monitoring flows, performance, asynchronous, and batch jobs.
Describe the environments, requirements, and process for deploying code and associated configurations.
