Exam Outline
Salesforce Fundamentals: 18%
Given a scenario, identify the boundaries of declarative customization and the use cases for programmatic customization.
Identify common scenarios for extending an org using AgentExchange.
Apply features and capabilities available to restrict and extend object, record, and field access.
Given a set of business requirements, determine the appropriate sharing solution.
Identify the features and capabilities available when creating reports, report types, and dashboards.
Data Modeling and Management: 20%
Given a scenario, determine the appropriate data model.
Given a scenario, explain the capabilities of the various relationship types and the implications of each on record access, user interface, and reporting.
Given a scenario, determine the considerations when selecting or changing a field data type.
Given a scenario, determine the options and considerations when importing and exporting data, including the capabilities of external data sources.
Business Logic and Process Automation: 32%
Given a scenario, demonstrate the use of formula fields to meet stated business requirements.
Given a scenario, determine the capabilities, use cases, and implications of roll-up summary fields.
Given a scenario, demonstrate the use of validation rules to meet stated business requirements.
Create and configure flows using Flow Builder.
Describe the capabilities and use cases for Flow Approval processes.
Given a scenario, determine the appropriate flow type to meet stated business requirements.
Maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot flows.
Describe the capabilities and use cases for using Agentforce to automate business processes.
User Interface: 17%
Describe the user interface customization options.
Demonstrate the capabilities and use cases for custom buttons, links, and actions.
Given a scenario, determine the declarative options available for incorporating Lightning components in an application.
Describe the programmatic customizations available for incorporating custom Lightning components in an application.
Given a set of requirements, determine the appropriate global, object-specific actions and layouts to optimize the Salesforce mobile user experience.
App Deployment: 13%
Given a set of business requirements, recommend a solution for managing the application lifecycle, including sandbox types.
Given a use case, demonstrate knowledge, viability, and troubleshooting when using change sets.
Describe the use cases and considerations when using unmanaged and managed packages.
Given a scenario, determine the appropriate deployment plan.
